[Performance] Pre-mount new expense destinations behind confirmation RHP (#97874)
Expensify/App: contributingGuides/NAVIGATION.md

-   **Narrow layout with `narrowDestinationStrategy: CONST.NARROW_DESTINATION_STRATEGY.REVEAL`, or wide layout (always), or narrow layout where the pre-insert hasn't finished yet:** `reveal()` calls `Navigation.revealRouteBeforeDismissingModal` instead - it swaps in the destination and dismisses in one step, at reveal time rather than eagerly. Correctness is the same either way; only the narrow pre-insert path has the mount-ahead-of-time perf win.

```tsx
const destinationRoute = buildDestinationRoute(itemID);
const {reveal, cleanupPreMount} = usePreMountDestination(destinationRoute);

const handleSubmit = () => {
    saveDataRequiredByDestination(); // synchronous work happens before reveal()
    reveal();
};

const handleBackOut = () => {
    cleanupPreMount(); // safe to call unconditionally - no-ops if nothing was pre-inserted
    Navigation.goBack();
};
```

> See `IOURequestStepConfirmation.tsx` for the real reference implementation (submit-expense confirmation dismissing to the created report).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See `IOURequestStepConfirmation.tsx` for a reference implementation.
```

-   `reveal(afterTransition?)`: dismisses the RHP over the pre-inserted destination if the hook owns one, otherwise falls back to `revealRouteBeforeDismissingModal` (see above).
-   `cleanupPreMount()`: removes the owned pre-insert, if any. Call it unconditionally on every back-out path (header back, hardware back) that closes the RHP without calling `reveal()` - it's a no-op when this instance never actually pre-inserted anything.
-   `shouldPreservePreInsertedRouteOnUnmount`: pass when the component unmounts before `reveal()` runs but the pre-insert should survive (e.g. the caller dismisses separately after a submit).

> [!NOTE]

> > Only one component may own a pre-inserted route at a time (a single-pre-inserter invariant enforced by a module-level flag in `Navigation.ts`). `reveal()` logs a warning if it runs while a *different* flow's pre-insert flag is still set - that's a sign the previous owner didn't clean up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Only one component may own a pre-inserted route at a time. `reveal()` logs a warning if it runs while a *different* flow's pre-insert flag is still set - that's a sign the previous owner didn't clean up.
```

> [!NOTE]
> For a **report** destination, pre-insert pushes it as a route between the origin and the RHP (`[origin, RHP] -> [origin, destination, RHP]`). For a **tab** target (e.g. Search), it's a tab switch instead (`[Tab(A), RHP] -> [Tab(B), RHP]`), with the original tab saved for restore-on-cancel. Which one happens is determined by the destination route, not by anything the caller configures.

> [!NOTE]
> See [PERF-18](../.claude/skills/coding-standards/rules/perf-18-use-pre-mount-destination.md) for the AI-review checklist covering this hook.

#### What pre-inserting actually costs

Pre-inserting is not a lightweight placeholder swap - it's a real second screen mounted in the stack, with its own Onyx connections, effects, and any API calls it fires on mount, running concurrently with the RHP that's still open. That mount happens whether or not the user ever reveals it: if they back out, `cleanupPreMount()` removes the *route*, but any data fetch the destination's mount already triggered already ran. For a screen with meaningful data-fetching behind it, that's wasted work on every back-out, not a free perf win.

> This is why the hook's own preconditions matter and aren't just checkboxes: the destination has to be knowable at mount time (otherwise there's nothing correct to pre-insert), and the user needs genuine dwell time on the RHP before dismissing (otherwise the pre-insert's own scheduling - it waits for the RHP's open transition, then schedules at idle priority - never gets a chance to finish, and you paid the mount cost for nothing).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is why the hook's own preconditions matter and aren't just checkboxes: the destination has to be known at mount time (otherwise there's nothing correct to pre-insert), and the user needs genuine dwell time on the RHP before dismissing (otherwise the pre-insert's own scheduling - it waits for the RHP's open transition, then schedules at idle priority - never gets a chance to finish, and you paid the mount cost for nothing).
```

> This is why the hook's own preconditions matter and aren't just checkboxes: the destination has to be knowable at mount time (otherwise there's nothing correct to pre-insert), and the user needs genuine dwell time on the RHP before dismissing (otherwise the pre-insert's own scheduling - it waits for the RHP's open transition, then schedules at idle priority - never gets a chance to finish, and you paid the mount cost for nothing).

Reviewer: This is another instance of the dwell-time claim that I'm not sure I believe

> The hook's interaction with native navigation gestures has also turned out to be genuinely subtle, not incidental complexity: native swipe-back can pop the RHP at the native layer before any JS cleanup runs, briefly flashing the pre-inserted destination. This is a known limitation without a deterministic fix yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Native swipe-back can pop the RHP at the native layer before any JS cleanup runs, briefly flashing the pre-inserted destination. This is a known limitation without a deterministic fix yet.
```

> **Concrete cases where the gap/flash cost is worth paying instead of reaching for this hook:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Examples when NOT to use `usePreMountDestination`:**
```

> - **The destination is heavy and rarely reached from this dismiss path.** If most users dismiss via header-back rather than actually submitting, pre-inserting on every RHP open pays the concurrent-mount cost far more often than it pays off. Profile the actual dismiss-to-reveal ratio before assuming pre-insert wins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **The destination is heavy and rarely reached from the dismiss path.** If most users dismiss rather than actually submitting, pre-inserting on every RHP open pays the concurrent-mount cost far more often than it pays off. Search logs to profile the production dismiss-to-reveal ratio before assuming pre-insert wins.
```

Again: I think this advice is hard to follow without some structure (standardized logs for dismiss and reveal, plus a script to search them)

### Summary

-   `Navigation.navigate` is used to navigate between screens. Remember that it calls the `linkTo` method implemented by us. It accepts the route as a parameter not a screen name.
-   `Navigation.goBack` allows you to navigate back to the previous page. You will probably need to pass the `backToRoute` parameter to this method in such cases to preserve the screen order after refreshing the page.
-   If you want to go back to the screen regardless of its parameter values, pass `{compareParams: false}` to `Navigation.goBack`.
-   If you want to close the entire modal window, regardless of how many pages you have opened, use `Navigation.dismissModal` to do that.
-   If you want to open a report from RHP to prevent navigation back to this modal window, use `Navigation.dismissModalWithReport`.

> -   If dismissing an RHP reveals a different fullscreen destination, use `usePreMountDestination` to mount it ahead of time instead of orchestrating pre-insert/reveal by hand - but only when the destination is known at mount time and the user has real dwell time on the RHP; it's a real concurrent mount, not a free perf win, so profile before reaching for it on a heavy or rarely-reached destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   If dismissing an RHP reveals a different fullscreen destination, use `usePreMountDestination` to mount it ahead of time - but only when the destination is known at mount time; it's a real concurrent mount, not a free perf win, so profile before reaching for it on a heavy or rarely-reached destination.
```
